docs/README.md, before:

# 🎨 ImageGlitch Documentation

Welcome to the comprehensive documentation for ImageGlitch - an AI-powered image manipulation suite that combines advanced background removal with real-time creative effects.

## 📚 Documentation Structure

### Quick Navigation

| Section | Description | Link |
|---------|-------------|------|
| **🏠 Overview** | Introduction and key features | [Overview](overview.md) |
| **🚀 Getting Started** | Installation and quick setup | [Getting Started](getting-started.md) |
| **📖 User Guide** | Complete usage instructions | [User Guide](user-guide.md) |
| **⚙️ Configuration** | Settings and customization | [Configuration](configuration.md) |
| **👨‍💻 Developer Guide** | Development and contribution | [Developer Guide](developer-guide.md) |
| **🔧 API Reference** | Technical API documentation | [API Reference](api-reference.md) |
| **❓ FAQ & Troubleshooting** | Common issues and solutions | [FAQ](faq.md) |
| **📝 Changelog** | Version history and updates | [Changelog](changelog.md) |

## 🔗 Quick Links

- **[GitHub Repository](https://github.com/binayakbartaula11/ImageGlitch)** - Source code and issues
- **[Live Demo](http://localhost:8501)** - Try ImageGlitch locally
- **[Technical Whitepaper](../WHITEPAPER.md)** - In-depth technical analysis
- **[Contributing Guidelines](../CONTRIBUTING.md)** - How to contribute

## 🆘 Need Help?

- 💬 **[GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/binayakbartaula11/ImageGlitch/discussions)** - Ask questions and share ideas
- 🐛 **[Report Issues](https://github.com/binayakbartaula11/ImageGlitch/issues)** - Bug reports and feature requests
- 📧 **Contact** - Reach out through GitHub

---

## 🎯 What is ImageGlitch?

ImageGlitch is a comprehensive image processing suite that provides:

### ✂️ AI Background Removal
- **5 Specialized AI Models** for different image types
- **Professional Output Options** (transparent, custom backgrounds)
- **High-Quality Processing** with edge preservation

### 🎨 Real-Time Glitch Effects
- **Live Preview System** with instant feedback
- **Multiple Effect Categories** (noise, blur, shake, motion)
- **Extreme Mode** for dramatic creative effects

### ⚡ Performance Features
- **Smart Caching** for responsive interaction
- **Adaptive Quality Modes** for different hardware
- **Lazy Model Loading** for efficient memory usage

---

## 🚀 Quick Start

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/binayakbartaula11/ImageGlitch.git
cd ImageGlitch

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Launch the application
streamlit run app.py
```

Open your browser to `http://localhost:8501` to start using ImageGlitch!

---

## 📊 System Requirements

### Minimum Requirements
- **Python** 3.7+
- **RAM** 4GB
- **Storage** 1GB (for AI models)
- **Internet** Required for initial model downloads

### Recommended Configuration
- **Python** 3.9+
- **RAM** 8GB+
- **GPU** NVIDIA with CUDA support (optional)
- **Storage** 2GB+

---

## 🏗️ Documentation Framework

This documentation is built with:
- **Markdown** for easy editing and version control
- **GitHub Pages** compatibility for online hosting
- **Responsive Design** for mobile and desktop viewing
- **Search-Friendly** structure with clear navigation

### Contributing to Documentation

We welcome contributions to improve this documentation! Please see our [Contributing Guidelines](../CONTRIBUTING.md) for details on:
- Fixing typos and improving clarity
- Adding new sections or examples
- Translating documentation
- Improving visual design

---

*Last updated: August 2025 | Version 1.0*

Commit message:

docs: massive overhaul and enhancement
- Revamp README.md with clear navigation and overview
- Expand overview with detailed project introduction and features
- Add comprehensive getting-started guide for installation and quick setup
- Update user-guide with complete usage instructions
- Enhance configuration guide with settings and customization options
- Revise developer-guide for development and contribution workflows
- Improve API reference with updated technical details
- Add thorough FAQ for troubleshooting and common issues
- Integrate deployment guide with multi-environment strategies
- Include optimization document for performance tuning
- Update changelog with version history and recent updates

docs/README.md, after:

# 🎨 ImageGlitch Documentation

Welcome to the comprehensive documentation for ImageGlitch - an AI-powered image manipulation suite that combines advanced background removal with real-time creative effects. This documentation covers all aspects of installation, usage, deployment, and development.

## 📚 Documentation Structure

### Quick Navigation

| Section | Description | Link |
|---------|-------------|------|
| **🏠 Overview** | Introduction and key features | [Overview](overview.md) |
| **🚀 Getting Started** | Installation and quick setup | [Getting Started](getting-started.md) |
| **📖 User Guide** | Complete usage instructions | [User Guide](user-guide.md) |
| **⚙️ Configuration** | Settings and customization | [Configuration](configuration.md) |
| **🚀 Deployment** | Cloud, Docker, and platform deployment | [Deployment Guide](deployment.md) |
| **⚡ Optimization** | Performance tuning and memory management | [Optimization Guide](optimization.md) |
| **👨‍💻 Developer Guide** | Development and contribution | [Developer Guide](developer-guide.md) |
| **🔧 API Reference** | Technical API documentation | [API Reference](api-reference.md) |
| **❓ FAQ & Troubleshooting** | Common issues and solutions | [FAQ](faq.md) |
| **📝 Changelog** | Version history and updates | [Changelog](changelog.md) |

## 🔗 Quick Links

- **[GitHub Repository](https://github.com/binayakbartaula11/ImageGlitch)** - Source code and issues
- **[Live Demo](http://localhost:8501)** - Try ImageGlitch locally
- **[Technical Whitepaper](../WHITEPAPER.md)** - In-depth technical analysis
- **[Contributing Guidelines](../CONTRIBUTING.md)** - How to contribute

## 🆘 Need Help?

- 💬 **[GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/binayakbartaula11/ImageGlitch/discussions)** - Ask questions and share ideas
- 🐛 **[Report Issues](https://github.com/binayakbartaula11/ImageGlitch/issues)** - Bug reports and feature requests
- 📧 **Contact** - Reach out through GitHub

---

## 🎯 What is ImageGlitch?

ImageGlitch is a comprehensive image processing suite that provides:

### ✂️ AI Background Removal
- **5 Specialized AI Models** for different image types
- **Professional Output Options** (transparent, custom backgrounds)
- **High-Quality Processing** with edge preservation

### 🎨 Real-Time Glitch Effects
- **Live Preview System** with instant feedback
- **Multiple Effect Categories** (noise, blur, shake, motion)
- **Extreme Mode** for dramatic creative effects

### ⚡ Performance Features
- **Smart Caching** for responsive interaction
- **Adaptive Quality Modes** for different hardware
- **Lazy Model Loading** for efficient memory usage

---

## 🚀 Quick Start

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/binayakbartaula11/ImageGlitch.git
cd ImageGlitch

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Launch the application
streamlit run app.py
```

Open your browser to `http://localhost:8501` to start using ImageGlitch!

---

## 📊 System Requirements

### Minimum Requirements
- **Python** 3.7+
- **RAM** 4GB
- **Storage** 1GB (for AI models)
- **Internet** Required for initial model downloads

### Recommended Configuration
- **Python** 3.9+
- **RAM** 8GB+
- **GPU** NVIDIA with CUDA support (optional)
- **Storage** 2GB+

---

## 🏗️ Documentation Framework

This documentation is built with:
- **Markdown** for easy editing and version control
- **GitHub Pages** compatibility for online hosting
- **Responsive Design** for mobile and desktop viewing
- **Search-Friendly** structure with clear navigation

### Contributing to Documentation

We welcome contributions to improve this documentation! Please see our [Contributing Guidelines](../CONTRIBUTING.md) for details on:
- Fixing typos and improving clarity
- Adding new sections or examples
- Translating documentation
- Improving visual design

---

*Last updated: August 2025 | Version 1.0*
